# serverless-playground
 
Setting up Nuclio with docker 
Documentation can be found on nuclios website (nuclio.io). Make sure to have docker installed on your computer. Navigate to  this page for more reference on how to install docker https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/. Next step is to make sure docker is running, once it is installed you can choose to view the dashboard which will contain the functions that are being deployed once the dashboard is up and running. After docker is running open powershell terminal and type in this command (docker run -p 8070:8070 -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock -v /tmp:/tmp nuclio/dashboard:stable-amd64)By running this command you can now access to dashboard, go into a browser and type in  http://localhost:8070 , After that the dashboard should be up and running and available to use. 

Getting started on Nuclio dashboard 
Once the dashboard is running it will give you the option of creating your own function, using a template or uploading a yaml file. If you're new to using the dashboard you might want to start with viewing the hello world function that is provided. This is a simple function but it is important to note the context, event format that nuclio uses as well as the response format. The dashboard provides a configuration section which has many options, some of the inputs include adding environment variables, build command and or a docker image if you choose not to use the default. Next to the configuration option is the triggers. This section can create multiple triggers such as http, kafka,Kinesis, cron and more.  On the far left is the logs after each deployment you should see what is running in the function and or the errors if its deployment fails. Once a function is deployed you can also view it in the docker dashboard, when a function is deployed it creates a docker container and the logs will be available to see. This is a recourse to test built in functions as well as creating your own functions. The dashboard makes it simple to add configurations to a function and is not hard to navigate. 

Setting up a docker file 
Recourse than can be used: What is Dockerfile | How to create and build Dockerfile | Dockerfile Basic Commands . This is a small tutorial on docker files if anyone is unfamiliar with it. To start a folder is needed with a docker file in it. You can do this step by going to the command line or git bash if it is installed. After opening it up navigate to your docker file by using the command docker build. During this process you will need to name and tag the docker file for example name nuclioobject with tag 1.0. The specific command would be docker built -t nuclioobject:1.0 . The period is also included in order to run this command. After that then check docker images by typing in the command docker images to see if what you have created is there. Next is to tag the image so it can be pushed and pulled. You can do this by running the common docker tag image id, docker hub username and image name and tag. It is also important to have a docker hub account in order for this to work. If you are not familiar with that please navigate to this recourse https://hub.docker.com/ . If you already have a docker hub account the next step is to push the image to your docker hub. This can be achieved by using this command docker push docker hub username name image name and tag. After that is done if you go to your dockerhub you should see a new image there.
